Some people give alms to beggars in order to ward them off and not due to pity. Many beggars are so young and healthy that they do not deserve charity at all. The deserving cases are very few; those who are crippled, lame, deaf, dumb, blind or handicapped and cannot earn their living. Some are in such a pathetic state as to evoke pity and compassion. Such crippled beggars are well versed in the art of singing religious songs. Some beggars have a very melodious voice. Their sweet voice attracts the passers-by. Such beggars are found in trains and buses and they enthral the travellers through their religious and devotional songs.

Sometimes, one comes across a deaf and dumb beggar, carrying another blind or lame beggar on his back and begging for alms. It is also usual to see a leper Seated in a manually driven cart and carried from place to place. These beggars know human psyche and beg by touching the feelings of the people.

Most beggars thrive due to the generosity of soft hearted people. These beggars never miss religious gatherings and festivals. Some wear only a loin-cloth. Some beggars besmear themselves with ash while others have long hair and carry a pair of tongs. Some meditate under trees. But many are cheats and charlatans. These beggars deceive the innocent people and at times even rob them.

These beggars live on the earnings of others. It is a great shame that even a number of healthy persons resort to begging. They are often involved with criminal gangs and wait for an opportunity to prey upon innocent victims. Government and many non-government organisations are working towards the betterment of beggars by helping the deserving ones and punishing and employing, the lazy and cheats.

Street begging is really a bane for any society. Nowadays, people are not swayed by any religious feeling. Hence, beggars are not treated in the manner in which they hope to be treated. It is good so that future generations do not restore to begging.

India is a land of variety and is inhabited by all types of people. Jugglers are a very common sight in India. They provide us with amusement and fun. They are generally found in small towns and villages as well as at fairs. In big cities, we come across very few jugglers because people have so many other attractions and means of entertainment that they show no interest in the hackneyed tricks of the jugglers. The working people in particular, cannot afford to waste their precious time by watching the performances of jugglers.