If you picture in your mind the price action of JCB Superstores, you may recognize three chart patterns: a double bottom, a double top, and a dead-cat
bounce. To knowledgeable investors, chart patterns are not squiggles on a
price chart; they are the footprints of the smart money. The footprints are all
they need to follow as they line their pockets with greater and greater riches.
To others, such as Tom, it takes hard work and pavement pounding before
they dare take a position in a stock. They are the ones making the footprints.
They are the smart money that is setting the rules of the game—a game anyone can play. It is called investing.
Whether you choose to use technical analysis or fundamental analysis in
your trading decisions, it pays to know what the market is thinking. It pays to
look for the footprints. Those footprints may well steer you away from a cliff
and get you out of a stock just in time. The feet that make those footprints are
the same ones that will kick you in the pants, waking you up to a promising
investment opportunity.
Let me tell you how I followed one trail of footprints. I sold my holdings
in Alaska Air because I thought the stock was going down. Here is my notebook entry: “9/6/2001. I put a stop at 31.50 this morning and it hit. The stock
has breeched a support level and with weakness in the economy and September/October upon us, it’s time to leave with a small loss [2.5%]. I should have
bought at the breakout price [of an Eve & Adam double bottom]. The relative
strength index peaked twice and now is headed down, suggesting a sale, and the
commodity channel index says sell, too.”
I sold the airline two trading days before the terrorist attacks of 9/11.
Four days after trading resumed, the stock bottomed at 17.70, nearly half the
price at what I sold. The footprints did not lie; they led away from a cliff.
This book gives you the tools to spot the footprints, where they predict
the stock is heading, how far it will travel, and how reliable the trail you are following really is. The tools will not make you rich; tools rarely do. But they are
instruments to greater wealth. Use them wisely