downward target by subtracting the height from the lowest low (that is, 12 –
2.13 or 9.87). You can see in Figure 1.4 that the price never quite reaches the
downward price target.
Go long at the low. Once you have uncovered a broadening bottom,
with two minor highs and two minor lows, you can think about trading it.
When the price bounces off the lower trend line, buy the stock. Sell when
prices turn down. The downturn may occur as a partial rise partway across the
formation, or prices may cross completely to the other side, touch the top
trend line, and head down. Remember, the formation may stage an upward
breakout, so do not sell too soon and cut your profits short.
Long stop. In a rising price trend, place a stop-loss order 0.15 below the
minor low. Should the stock reverse and head down, you will be taken out with
a small loss. As the stock rises to the opposite side of the formation, move your
stop upward to 0.15 below the prior minor low. The minor low may act as a
resistance point, so you will be giving the stock every opportunity to bounce off
the resistance level before being cashed out.
Go short at the high. The trading tactic for downward breakouts is the
same. When prices touch the top trend line and begin moving down, short 
the stock.
Short stop. Place a stop-loss order 0.15 above the highest high in the formation, then pray that prices decline.
Move stop. If luck is on your side and the stock heads down, move your
stop lower. Use the prior minor high—place the stop 0.15 above it.
Other. If the stock makes a partial rise or decline, consider acting on it.
This is a reliable breakout signal. Take advantage of it but make sure you place
a stop-loss order in case the trade goes bad.
Once prices break out and leave the broadening pattern, consider selling
if the price nears the target. There is no guarantee that the price will hit or
exceed the target, so be ready to complete the trade, especially if there is a
resistance level between the current price and the target. The stock may reach
the resistance point and turn around.
Sample Trade
Susan likes to think of herself as the brains in the family. While her husband is
suffering in foul weather as a carpenter, she is hammering away at her keyboard,
a slave to her computer masters. She is an active position trader who is not
afraid to short a stock, given good profit potential and an especially weak fundamental or technical situation. It is a stressful life, but making money often is