When she spotted the broadening bottom shown in Figure 1.4, she began
her analysis. The stock reached a high of 37.38 in early November 1991 
and has been heading down ever since. Now, with the stock trading at 14, she
Sample Trade 25
4366_01.qxd 2/23/05 11:28 AM Page 25wondered how much downside remained. She drew the two trend-line boundaries and counted the number of alternating touches (in Figure 1.4, three are
labeled as numbers and Point A is the fourth alternating touch).
Since most broadening formations tend to break out after four alternating touches and since the price was near the top of the formation heading
down, she guessed that the stock would break out downward on the next crossing. So she sold the stock short and received a fill at 13.88. It was a gamble,
sure, but one she was comfortable making. In any case, she immediately placed
a stop at 14.25, or slightly above the high at point A.
Susan was overjoyed to see the stock plummet 2 days later and race across
to the other side of the formation, touching the bottom trend line at point B.
Usually, her trades are not that easy. She decided to protect her profit and lowered the stop to the nearest minor high, shown as point C, at 13.75 or 0.15
above the high. Then she waited.
The stock bounced off the lower trend line instead of busting through as
she hoped. She decided to be patient and see what the stock did next. With her
stop-loss order in place at the break-even price, she felt protected and comfortable in letting the trade ride.
The stock bounced off the 12 support level and did a partial rise before
meeting resistance and heading back down. Two days after cresting, she made
the determination that on the next touch, the stock would pierce the lower
trend line and continue down. She doubled her stake by selling more stock
short at 12.75. She was wrong. The stock continued down 1 more day before
moving up again. Susan adjusted her stop-loss order to include the additional
shares, but kept it at the same price level (13.75). Again she waited. The stoc