about 2 weeks and established the base on which a horizontal trend line
appears.
The reason for the horizontal trend line is one of perceived value. As the
stock approached the $12 level, more investors and institutional holders purchased the stock. The desire to own the stock at what they believed a good
value outweighed the reluctance of sellers to part with their shares. The
demand halted the decline in the stock and eventually sent prices skyward
again. This happened in mid-April as volume spiked along with the price. The
enthusiasm caused the stock to reach a new high. Momentum was high enough
so that the next day, prices rose even further before closing lower. With the
second peak, a tentative trend line drawn along the tops of the formation
sloped upward and gave character to the broadening formation.
The stock moved rapidly back down even as volume increased. This
decline stopped before it reached the lower trend line, signaling continued
enthusiasm. Prices pushed higher and reached a new high, this one at 15.50 on
May 6. The up-sloping trend line resistance area repelled any further advance.
The stock simply did not have enough upward momentum to push through the
selling pressure at the new level.
The next day volume dried up, but there was enough momentum remaining for another try at the summit. When the attempt failed, the smart money
headed back for base camp and volume receded even further. As prices collapsed, other investors joined in the retreat and volume moved up. In less than
2 weeks, prices were back at the lower trend line.
Another feeble attempt at a new high floundered on unremarkable volume. The stock moved horizontally and stalled out—a partial rise that often
spells trouble for a stock. On June 4, prices dropped on high volume and
returned to the horizontal trend line. The stock paused there for just over a
week before moving down and punching through the support level at 12.25.
A pullback in a bull market is quite common for ascending broadening
formations, so it is no surprise that after a rapid 13% retreat, the stock turned
around and pulled back to the base of the formation. Although not shown in
Figure 2.2, the stock continued moving up until it began forming another
ascending broadening formation in late October with a base at 16.50.
The ascending broadening formation represents the desire of investors
and traders to own the stock at a fixed price, in this case about 12.25. Their
buying enthusiasm pushes prices higher until mounting selling pressure causes
a halt to the rise and sends the stock tumbling. With each attempt, fewer people are left willing to sell their shares until they receive an even higher price,
so a broadening range of prices appears at the top. Eventually, the buying
enthusiasm at the base of the formation collapses and removes the support fo