Trading Tactics
Table 37.9 lists trading tactics for rectangle bottoms.
Measure rule. The first tactic is to determine the predicted price target
using the measure rule. The rule first finds the height of the formation by subtracting the lowest low from the highest high. In essence, just subtract the
value of the two trend lines from each other. Figure 37.4 shows an example of
this. The top trend line is at 12.44 and the bottom one is at 11. The difference,
1.44, is the formation height. Add the height to the value of the top trend line
to get the upward breakout target (13.88) and subtract it from the value of the
lower trend line to get the downward breakout target (9.56). Some analysts
suggest measuring the length (not the height) of the rectangle, flipping it vertically, and adding or subtracting it from the top or bottom trend line to get the
maximum price move (for upward and downward breakouts, respectively).
This approach sounds a bit far-fetched, but it is a handy guideline. Use it with
caution as I have not verified how well it works.
The measure rule (vertical measure) works between 50% and 66% of the
time for downward breakouts and between 64% and 85% of the time for
upward breakouts.
576 Rectangle Bottoms
Table 37.9
Trading Tactics
Trading Tactic Explanation
Measure rule Measure the height of the rectangle by subtracting the value of
the trend lines from each other. For upward breakouts, add the
height to the top trend line; for downward breakouts, subtract the
value from the bottom trend line. The result is the expected minimum price move. For a maximum price target, measure the length
of the rectangle and extend it vertically above the top trend line
(for upward breakouts) or below the bottom one (downward
breakouts). The price then becomes the maximum expected move.
Wait for breakout Since you cannot be sure in which direction a rectangle will break
out, wait for price to close outside the trend line before trading in
the direction of the breakout.
Tall rectangle scalp If the rectangle is tall enough, sell or sell short near the top trend
line and buy or cover near the bottom trend line.
Throwbacks, If you have a downward breakout, watch for a pullback and short 
pullbacks the stock or add to your short position once prices begin descending again. Use the same technique for an upward breakout: Wait
for the throwback then initiate or add to your position when
prices rise.
Other Watch for rectangles forming as the corrective phase of a
measured move formation and adjust the target price accordingly.
Rectangle reversals sometimes appear as flat bottom formations