As an example of one particular type of text reuse (see, e.g. 
(Clough,2003) for further information and discussion), 
plagiarism has received much attention from both the 
academic and commercial communities. This has been 
particularly true in academia as students turn to technology 
to fabricate texts which are not entirely their own work. Text 
reuse is defined as the activity whereby pre-existing written 
material is reused during the creation of a new text, either 
intentionally or un-intentionally. 
Many other examples of text reuse surround us today, 
including the creation of literary and historical texts, 
summarisation, translation or revision of existing texts. 
Many factors influence text reuse including translating an 
original text into a different language, restyling an original to 
fit different authorial or consumer needs (e.g. rewriting a 
scientific text to be readable by the layman), reducing or 
expanding the size of the original text and the competency 
and production requirements of the writer. 
Recent advances in technology are making text reuse 
much easier. For example, the Google web search engine 
claims to index over 3 billion web pages1
 providing a large 
variety of source texts on a diverse range of topics in many 
different languages. Word processors have also become 
more sophisticated, enabling users to easily cut and paste, 
merge and format pre-existing texts from a variety of 
sources. This, coupled with the change of culture brought 
about by electronic ‘cyber-space’ has caused concern to 
authors surrounding the ownership of their written material. 
Either the owner (perhaps the publisher) has to protect their 
texts (e.g. using digital watermarks), rely on finding 
illegitimate copies, or even de-valuea
 their digital content in 
some way. Mallon (1989) suggests that “the origin and 
On March 24, 2000, the financial world changed. No, that was not the date this
book first hit the store shelves, but the beginning of a bear market that lasted
21⁄
2 years. Finally, I had bear market data to use for finding chart patterns!
After spending nearly 5 years recovering from the work needed to complete the first edition, I decided to undertake an update. I changed the editorial content of the book in small ways, but made substantial improvements in
others. Here is the list of the important changes:
• Bull and bear market statistics for complete coverage.
• Expanded statistics, all in a similar format:
Results Snapshot, at the start of each chapter shows the most
important numbers and surprises.