Forms of plagiarism 
Plagiarism can take several distinct forms, including the 
following (Martin,1994): 
(1) Word-for-word plagiarism: direct copying of phrases 
or passages from a published text without quotation or 
acknowledgement. 
(2) Paraphrasing plagiarism: when words or syntax are 
changed (rewritten), but the source text can still be 
recognised. 
(3) Plagiarism of secondary sources: when original 
sources are referenced or quoted, but obtained from a 
secondary source text without looking up the original. 
(4) Plagiarism of the form of a source: the structure of 
an argument in a source is copied (verbatim or 
rewritten). 
(5) Plagiarism of ideas: the reuse of an original thought2
from a source text without dependence on the words or 
form of the source.
(6) Plagiarism of authorship: the direct case of putting 
your own name to someone else’s work 
The easiest form of plagiarism to detect and prove is 
verbatim or word-for-word text reuse (given a possible 
source text to compare with). This can often be detected 
using the simplest of automatic methods, but occurrences 
by students are often due to the fact that they are uncertain 
as to how to reuse source texts legitimately. 
Acknowledgments
Perhaps several times in your life, something occurs that alters its direction.
That happened to me several years ago when I brashly submitted my first article to Technical Analysis of Stocks and Commodities. Much to my surprise and
delight, the editor at the time, Thom Hartle, published the work. That single
event sent me spinning off in a new direction, another career.
Nearly a dozen articles later, I called Thom and chatted with him about
an idea for a book. He steered me to Pamela van Giessen, now editorial director for John Wiley & Sons, Inc., publisher of this book. A single e-mail of my
idea to her put a new set of wheels in motion. Simple words cannot express my
thanks to these two outstanding individuals.
This is a great book made better by the tireless efforts of Bernice Pettinato