I sometimes like to admit, I landed a job with a company I could finally call
home—a job that would last a lifetime, or so I hoped. Almost 6 months after
my 10-year anniversary with the company, I received a letter from the chairman. He congratulated me on my decade with the company and looked forward to even more success for me in the coming years.
Six weeks later I was laid off.
I took stock of the situation and decided that, at the age of 36, I had
enough. Newspapers term guys like me The Missing Million. We are the ones
who, for whatever reason, leave their jobs and decide not to go back into the
workforce. We retire. Everyone, and I mean everyone (with the notable exception of my cousin Mary Ann—bless her heart), thinks we are nuts. They are
right, of course!
For the longest time, I have been fascinated with technical analysis of
stocks. In the early years, I considered the little squiggles to be nothing short
of voodoo. Still, I was curious as to why the major brokerage houses were hiring technical analysts in droves. But I did not dare take my eye off the fundamentals simply because I did not know anything about the technicals. Then I
discovered Technical Analysis of Stocks and Commodities magazine. During my
lunch hour, I would take the elevator down to the library and read back issues.
Although I saw chart patterns in the stocks I bought, I never really attached
much significance to them. As some of my selections went sour, I began to view
chart patterns with more respect. The fundamentals always looked good, but
the technicals were signaling a trend change just as I was about to pull the trigger. The stocks I bought either lost money outright or I sold them too soon
and cut my profits short.
Perhaps this has happened to you. You do fundamental research on a stock
and then buy it, only to watch it go nowhere for a year or more. Even worse,
once you get in, the stock tumbles. Had you looked at the chart the answer was
always there. Prices pierced a trend line, a head-and-shoulders top appeared
out of nowhere, the relative strength index signaled an overbought situation. In
short, any number of technical indicators were screaming that a buy now
would cost you your shirt. But you never saw the signs.