used by the newsworker as deletion, lexical substitution, 
and changes in syntax. 
2.4. Plagiarism detection 
Typically, manual plagiarism detection within a single text is 
based on identifying inconsistencies such as the author’s 
writing style, or recognising passages with a familiar feel to 
them. Between multiple texts, plagiarism detection involves 
finding similarities which are more than just coincidence 
and more likely to be the result of copying or collaboration 
between multiple authors. In some cases, a single text is 
first read and certain characteristics found which suggest 
plagiarism. The second stage is to then find possible 
source texts using tools such as web search engines for 
unknown on-line sources, or manually finding non-digital 
material for known sources. 
In academia, plagiarism detection is generally down to the 
knowledge, ability, time and effort of the lecturer/teacher 
assessing the student’s work. Typical discriminators 
signaling plagiarism might include the following: 
• Use of advanced or technical vocabulary beyond that 
expected of the writer. 
• A large improvement in writing style compared to 
previous submitted work. 
• Inconsistencies within the written text itself, e.g. 
changes in vocabulary, style or quality. 
• Incoherent text where the flow is not consistent or 
smooth, which may signal that a passage has been 
cut-and-pasted from an existing electronic source. 
• A large degree of similarity between the content of two 
or more submitted texts. This may include similarity of 
style as well as content. 
• Shared spelling mistakes or errors between texts. 
• Dangling references, e.g. a reference appears in the 
text, but not in the bibliography. 
• Use of inconsistent referencing in the bibliography 
suggesting cut-and-paste.
If you have ever been a board member, you know what I am talking about.
You have a fiduciary responsibility to the people who elected or appointed you
to that position. Not only should you study the material handed to you by the
staff, but you have to get out in the field and kick the tires. Do not assume that
what the staff says is always correct or represents the best solution. Question
everything but learn in the process and try to be helpful without being a pest
(I always seem to fall into the pest category). As a shareholder—an owner of the
company—should it be any different?