2.5. What the plagiarism detection task is not 
The problem of identifying plagiarism concerns the way in 
which the content of a text is expressed and whether this is 
likely to come from other sources. Is it consistent, or does it 
feel multi-authored; is the text similar to an existing one or 
does it appear original? This task differs from other 
problems of text analysis, for example authorship attribution 
and information retrieval. 
In authorship attribution, the concern is one of authorship 
regardless of content. Discriminators of attribution tend to 
be those based on lexical or syntactic features which remain constant over texts on different topics, but vary across 
authors. Plagiarism detection also varies from the typical ad 
hoc information retrieval task of finding texts on the same or 
similar topic to a user-defined query. In this problem 
discriminators are those based on topic (e.g. perhaps noun 
phrases, or proper names). 
The plagiarism detection task is different from authorship 
attribution, but deeper than information retrieval. Plagiarism 
concerns content, regardless of author and expression, 
rather than topic. Given that there will always remain a high 
degree of similarity between works on the same topic (e.g. 
essays written by a group of students on the same course) 
discriminators used in plagiarism detection should not only 
concern content, but also expression. try to keep
cash employed by buying formations that promise reliable returns and reach
the ultimate high quickly.
For the long-term investor, chart patterns also signal good entry and exit
points. I remember buying an oil services company knowing that the investment would not make a significant return for 2 or 3 years. (I was wrong: It doubled in 3 weeks) I believe that in 3 years’ time, the stock will be in the 30s, a
sixfold increase from its low. It probably will not qualify as a ten-bagger, but it
is not small change either. In the short term, the road is going to be rocky, and