• More chart patterns. I added 14 new chart patterns.
• Event patterns. I added 9 new types of patterns, which I call event patterns. These include earnings surprises, drug approvals, store sales, and
stock upgrades and downgrades.
• More samples. I found over 38,500 chart pattern samples, more than
double the 15,000 used in the first edition, making many of the statistics rock solid.
• Keyed table entries. Each table entry appears in bold at the start of its
corresponding text discussion for easy locating.
• Glossary Various methods of sequence comparison have been 
suggested for measuring the similarity and difference 
between token sequences (see, e.g. (Sankoff and Krustal, 
1983)). One approach used successfully for plagiarism 
detection in program code is Greedy String Tiling (or GST: 
see, e.g. (Wise,1993)), an algorithm which computes a 1:1 
mapping between the tokens in a text pair in such a way 
that as much of one text as possible is covered with 
maximal non-overlapping substrings (called tiles) from the 
other. This algorithm computes the longest common 
substrings (greater than length n) between two texts without 
having to define an n-gram size a priori. For example, the 
texts in Figure 1 represents a tiling of two sentences after 
running GST (tiles are highlighted) with a minimum match 
length of 1 word. 
The result of running the GST algorithm is a set of maximal 
matches between the text pair: [for two years], [driver who], 
[into the], [a], [queen], [was] and [banned]. Given a set of 
tiles, a number of different quantitative measures can be 
derived such as the minimum and maximum tile length, the 
average tile length, the dispersion of tile lengths, and a 
similarity score based on tile length (similar to that for ngram containment). We have found on average that derived 
texts do share longer matching substrings, and both the 
tiling for a derived and non-derived text pair are in most 
cases apparently different (see Figure 2). The challenges 
are capturing these tiling patterns such that derived and 
non-derived texts are distinguishable
I no longer
follow but that have historical data of limited duration (some issues no 
longer trade).
For rare chart patterns, I use all three databases and search from 1991 to
the most recent date available. For plentiful patterns, I use already found patterns and add those appearing during the bear market. Thus, the number of
stocks I use to find patterns and the amount of historical price quotes varies.
In the first edition of this book, I used a combination of computerized
algorithms and manual searching to find chart patterns. The current edition