When I was a little tyke I decided the easiest way to riches was to play the stock
market. It was, after all, a level playing field, a negative-sum game with somebody winning and somebody losing. (Hint: The winner is always the broker.)
All one had to do to win was pick stocks that went up and avoid stocks that
went down. Easy.
I kept this in mind when I graduated from Syracuse University with an
engineering degree and showed up early for my first professional job. Each
morning I cracked open the newspaper and plotted my stock picks on a piece of GST is similar to that of the Dotplot approach (see 
Appendix 1), but with the advantage that the similarity is 
also quantified. I am looking at ways to better capture tiling 
patterns between texts, as well as creating 1:1 mappings 
based on the context around tokens, rather than just 
selecting the first match. I am also experimenting with 
making tile creation more resilient to simple editing 
changes, and comparing alternative text representations 
based on tagged, parsed and interpreted formats. 
I currently use a version of the UNIX diff tool to compute a 
measure of similarity based on the longest common 
subsequence of matching tiles to capture an element of 
structural similarity between the texts. This sequence 
comparison stage is also able to produce an edit script 
which lists a set of simple edit operations (insertion, 
deletion, substitution and transposition) to transform the 
original text into the derived text. My goal is to capture 
common editing patterns that describe how the tiles differ 
between the original and derived text, to enable the 
detection of further rewrite examples. Murata and Isaraha 
(2002) have shown how sequence comparison can be used 
to identify predictable differences between spoken transcripts of written texts.
end to the
bull market. The move capped a rise of 418% from the start of the period.
After that, the downhill bear run began, reaching a low in October 2002, for a
decline measuring 51%. The index bounced once but made a higher low in
March 2003, signaling a trend change. Thus, the October low marked the end
of the bear market.
What does all this mean? The bear market measures from March 24,
2000, to October 10, 2002—about 2.5 years long. For data collection purposes, the bull market is everything else, about 11 years long. That covers the
period I used to search for chart patterns in this edition