If you have ever worked on a car or done some woodworking, then you
will recognize the importance of selecting the right tool for the job. You would
not want to use a flat-head screwdriver when a Phillips works better. Both do
the job but they are hardly interchangeable. Sometimes it is not a screwdriver
you should be using, but a chisel. Selecting the proper tools and knowing how
to use them is half the battle. This book is a lot like that, helping to sort the
wheat from the chaff. Sometimes a chart pattern is frightening enough that you
will want to take profits. At other times, the best trade that you can make is
none at all. To scale the charts, I use ordinary least squares regression 
between the sets of values for the habit and average 
sentence length. This computes a linear equation of the 
form y=ax+b by minimizing the differences between the two 
data sets. I then re-scale the habit values using this linear 
equation. 
Figure 3 shows an example cusum plot for average 
sentence length versus the habit: 2-3 letter words + words 
starting with an initial vowel word for Chapter 1 of 
Northanger Abbey by Jane Austin10. This cusum chart 
represents one of the difficulties of using cusums to identify 
inconsistencies in texts: that of selecting the correct habits. 
The charts can be seen to deviate from around sentence 16 
to 23, and 32 to 42, which would suggest Jane Austin was 
not the only author of this chapter. However, for the BBC 
news story given in Figure 4, this choice of habit does seem 
suitable (assuming the text is authored by one person). 
management. Just
because I rely on technical analysis does not mean I do not look at the priceto-earnings, price-to-sales, and other more esoteric ratios. Then there is the
6 Introduction
4366_00.qxd 2/23/05 11:28 AM Page 6emotional element. After going for months without making a single trade, suddenly a profitable opportunity appears and I will take advantage of it. Three
days later, I will want to trade again. Why? Am I trading just because it feels
good to be finally back in the thick of things? Am I trading just because the sin