Acknowledgments
Perhaps several times in your life, something occurs that alters its direction.
That happened to me several years ago when I brashly submitted my first article to Technical Analysis of Stocks and Commodities. Much to my surprise and
delight, the editor at the time, Thom Hartle, published the work. That single
event sent me spinning off in a new direction, another career.
Nearly a dozen articles later, I called Thom and chatted with him about
an idea for a book. He steered me to Pamela van Giessen, now editorial director for John Wiley & Sons, Inc., publisher of this book. A single e-mail of my
idea to her put a new set of wheels in motion. Simple words cannot express my There are three main problems with using cusums: (1) 
computing the scaling factor for plotting cusum charts, (2) 
selecting suitable habits, and (3) detecting “significant” 
variations between the charts. Further problems also 
involve the quality of sentence splitting, the removal of 
“noisy” sentences, e.g. lists which deviate significantly from 
the average sentence length, the chart’s appearance varies 
depending on the number of sentences analysed, 
combining texts in different ways tends to give different 
cusum charts and the position of the combined texts also 
creates variation in the cusum plots. The cusum technique 
is certainly useful in detecting inconsistencies within a 
single text, but work by Hearsee (2001) found the method 
unsuccessful for plagiarism detection, and I believe 
methods used to detect inconsistencies in collaborative 
writing may offer better alternatives to the cusum approach.
try to keep
cash employed by buying formations that promise reliable returns and reach
the ultimate high quickly.
For the long-term investor, chart patterns also signal good entry and exit
points. I remember buying an oil services company knowing that the investment would not make a significant return for 2 or 3 years. (I was wrong: It doubled in 3 weeks) I believe that in 3 years’ time, the stock will be in the 30s, a
sixfold increase from its low. It probably will not qualify as a ten-bagger, but it
is not small change either. In the short term, the road is going to be rocky, and