Jim is struggling.
He is the owner of JCB Superstores and his competitor across town is
beating him up; there is blood all over Jim’s ledger. He decides it is time to take
off the gloves: JCB goes public. He uses the money from the initial public
offering to buy his competitor and add a few more stores around town.
With a growing sales base, Jim’s clout allows him to negotiate lower
prices for the office supplies he is retailing. He passes on part of the savings to
his customers, while watching his margins widen, and plows the profits back Many academics and commercial organisations have 
addressed the problem of plagiarism detection and many 
areas are still part of active research among both of these 
communities. There are still many questions surrounding 
plagiarism and its detection which remain unanswered, but 
I would like to recommend at least five areas of research 
that I believe would benefit plagiarism detection. These 
recommendations focus on detection in natural language 
texts, because to some degree the problem for program 
code has already been solved. 
5.1. Multi-lingual detection 
Research in natural language has predominantly focused 
on plagiarism occurring between monolingual texts (mainly 
English). However, given the multi-lingual nature of the 
Web and access to a growing wealth of multi-lingual 
resources, it seems plausible that plagiarists (who are 
probably able to write in more than one language) will reuse 
texts from a variety of languages as well as sources to 
create new texts.
Most of the sample trades included in the chapters of this book are fictitious.
Each sample trade uses techniques I wanted to illustrate, incorporating fictitious people in sometimes unusual circumstances. Call it poetic license, but I
hope they give you some ideas on how to increase your profits or to minimize
your losses.
Statistics: “I Don’t Believe the Numbers”
A high, tight flag has an average rise of 69% in a bull market. Question: If you
trade this pattern often enough in a bull market, will you make an average o