See also Same as for upward breakouts
If you think of a rectangle as a horizontal consolidation region or a flat base
from which prices make a large move, then rectangles are easier to identify and
the statistics more meaningful. Rectangle tops (RTs) are solid performers in
bull markets as the Results Snapshot shows. The failure rates are lowest and
performance is best when prices move in the direction of the prevailing market trend: upward in a bull market and downward in a bear market. Countertrend moves suffer.
The surprising findings are not surprising at all, as other chart pattern
types share many of the same ones. However, rectangles have features unique
to few other patterns: pre-formation rises and declines, and partial rises and
declines. A pre-formation rise or decline is when price bumps up or down just
before the rectangle starts. A partial rise or decline comes at the end of the rectangle and it reliably signals the breakout direction. More about these features
in the Statistics section of this chapter.
Tour
Figure 38.1 shows an example of a rectangle top. Prices begin their upward
trek in June 1992 at 14 and reach the rectangle in May of the following year.
Then prices consolidate for over a month, bouncing between overhead resistance at 24.63 and support at 23.63. A trend line drawn across the minor highs
580 Rectangle Tops
4366_38.qxd 2/23/05 12:16 PM Page 580is horizontal as is the one connecting the minor lows. There are a number of
touches of both trend lines suggesting a reliable formation. At the start, prices
overshoot both up and down by peeking outside the two trend lines. This
movement is not a problem because it occurs too early in the chart pattern
before it can be recognized as a rectangle.
The volume pattern begins in the typical manner—receding. However,
about two-thirds of the way to the breakout, the pattern changes. Volume gets
heavier as if building pressure for the upcoming release. Then, mysteriously,
volume subsides as prices move horizontally just below the top trend line for
over a week. When prices pierce the top trend line, volume picks up but not
remarkably so. Volume just builds on the expanding trend that is developing
since prices began sliding along the trend line top.
Prices climb away cleanly. There is a slight, 3-day dip in late June when
it looks as if prices are trying to throw back to the formation top, but the buying pressure is just too strong. The retrace stops and prices turn around and
continue moving up.
Why do rectangles form? A rectangle chart pattern is a struggle between
the haves and the have-nots. Those that own the stock but want to sell have
identified a price at which they are willing to part with their shares. When the
price reaches that level, they sell, forcing the price down. When prices fall,
they quit dumping the stock. On the other side is another group of investors
who want to acquire the stock. They place buy orders at what they perceive to
be the fair value. When price falls to their target, the buy orders overwhelm
Tour 581
Williams Companies Inc. (Natural Gas (Diversified), NYSE, WMB)
Jan 93 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
Partial
Decline

Figure 38.1 Rectangle top with an upward breakout performs well in this
uptrend.
4366_38.qxd 2/23/05 12:16 PM Page 581supply and the price rises. If this up–down struggle goes on long enough, price
bounces between one extreme and the other. Over time, you can draw a horizontal trend line along the peaks and another along the valleys as a rectangle
formation takes shape. Eventually, one of the sides runs out of ammunition. If
the people selling their shares run out first, buying demand overwhelms supply and the price pierces the top trend line. If the buyers spend all their money
and back away from the table, prices drop through the bottom of the rectangle.
In either case, the shares continue in the breakout direction because of growing demand (the price moves upward) or increasing supply (the price tumbles)