Wait for breakout. Since you cannot predict the breakout direction with
complete accuracy, wait for the breakout before investing. Place the trade after
price closes outside the rectangle trendline, and then trade with the trend.
Tall rectangle scalp. If the formation is tall enough, consider placing an
intraformation trade near the two trend lines. Short at the top when prices
begin descending, and cover when they rebound off the bottom trend line (do
not cover too soon as prices may continue moving down). Go long at the bottom and sell at the top trend line when prices begin falling. Again, wait for a
direction change as prices may stage an upward breakout.
Throwbacks, pullbacks. Throwbacks and pullbacks allow investors
another opportunity to place a trade, add to their position, or get out with a
smaller loss. Take advantage of it but wait for prices to complete their throwback or pullback before placing a trade or adding to a position. The reason for
waiting is that prices may continue in the adverse direction instead of returning to the trend line and rebounding.
Other. Sometimes, rectangle bottoms form as the corrective phase of a
measured move formation. See the Measured Move Down chapter for information on how to take advantage of the situation. Occasionally a rectangle will mark
the end of a substantial decline and appear like a flat bottom before prices rise.
Sample Trade
Figure 37.4 shows a paper trade I made. The rectangle bottom appeared after
prices dropped from a high of 20.63 in October 1997. The drop was a painful
one but it did not occur all at once. Prices dropped quite rapidly to 15 where
they moved horizontally for 8 months. Then the second half of the decline
took over and prices reached a low of about 11.
Prices bounced off the low several times, like a boy taking his first steps
on a trampoline. They were tentative, shaky, with not much enthusiasm. Then
in mid-October 1998, prices touched the bottom trend line and moved quickly
across the formation to tie the September high at 12.38. A few more oscillations and the two trend-line boundaries became apparent.
If you look at the overall picture, you might think that prices would continue down—a downward breakout (following the downward trend). I could
not tell which direction prices would go, so I decided to wait for the breakout.
If the formation acted as a consolidation, then the breakout would be downward. However, with a two-step downtrend from the high at 20.63, this
reminded me of a measured move down with a long corrective phase. I thought
it might break out upward. If the rectangle were taller, I would try an intraformation trade (buy at 11.13, sell at 12.38, and then reverse).
In early December, prices pierced the top trend line and closed above it;
staging an upward breakout. I noticed the breakout the day after it happened
and bought the stock 13, midrange for the day